how did welcome back to the xbox
you see I've owned the Xbox one for six
months now and I am very familiar with
it which means it's time to do the
inevitable compare and even comparing
consoles let's start with the physical
appearance the Xbox one is huge I mean
look at this it's actually four times
the size of the Wii U two stacked and
two across fortunately despite its size
it's not as ugly in person as it is in
pictures once you have one you can tell
it was designed with cooling in mind on
the other hand the Wii U lacks any sort
of presence and goes almost entirely
incognito and that's actually kind of
cool okay perhaps it could have used a
little more style but this is the
ultimate stealth console these two
really are on opposite ends of the
spectrum and appearance but I have to
give this one to the Wii U you see the
Xbox one is a bit of a space hog and
cannot be placed vertically to make up
for it winner Wii U let's have a look at
the user interface the initial look and
feel of the Xbox one interface is clunky
and unintuitive it is unfortunate that a
company with so much pedigree and
operating systems created this custom
version of Windows 8 and made it less
intuitive than its fallen counterpart in
fact one of the least intuitive things
is that if you don't pin your games and
you didn't play them recently you have
to go into your games and apps to find
it though Wii U on the other hand has a
great advantage with its gamepad not
only is the interface incredibly easy to
figure out but all of your apps and
games are present like on a smartphone
it also has folders for organizing and
the reality is that navigating the Wii U
is far simpler faster and easier by a
long shot
the use of the gamepad to navigate is
also far more intuitive but Xbox one
smart glass app does provide a far
superior keyboard powered by your smart
device so the gamepad and smart glass
kind of balance out when interacting
directly with the UI winner Wii U next
we talk about the stuff your kids only
seem to care about these days the size
of the pins the hardware now I know we
all talked about this before let's go
over it again for the new people the
Xbox one has an 8 core CPU with six
cores dead
kid into games it also has 8 gigabytes
of ddr3 RAM 5 gigabytes for games it
also has a 1.3 to teraflop GPU so the
raw power alone the Xbox one is the
winner here as the Wii U has a 3-quart
CPU for games the OS runs on a separate
AR M processor and 2 gigabytes of RAM
with 1 gigabyte ated 2 games and an
unknown GPU that is as most evidence
points to somewhat weaker than the Xbox
one winner Xbox one controllers the
thing you'll be holding on to the whole
time that you're using your system the
Xbox one controller is undeniably a very
comfortable controller however the
gamepad is surprisingly comfortable as
well and the dual vertical analog sticks
makes any game frequently requiring the
right stick far more comfortable
inaccurate additionally the game pads
off-tv play which goes highly
underappreciated
is far more comfortable and functional
when you just want to lay down while
you're placed in games other than my
preference for the right vertical analog
stick the Xbox one controller is a solid
piece of kit sorry I do like the Xbox
one controller I really do but the
gamepad is comfortable despite its size
and off-tv play means you can poop while
you're playing Mario Kart 8 winner Wii U
let's also look at the features of both
systems or the built-in software if you
will the Xbox one is every feature you
can imagine from five-minute DVR game
recording to cross game party chat to
twitch streaming essentially the Xbox
one is jam-packed with every feature you
can think of the way you on the other
hand is pretty bare-bones you don't have
cross game party chat no forms of
streaming and no forms of built-in game
and DVR what it does do though was add
me verse a system centric community that
is surprisingly intimate and artist
friendly
unfortunately there's no denying the
wealth of options the Xbox one provides
so winner Xbox one and finally let's
look at the games at this point its Xbox
one 2 and Wii U 3 all that's left is the
games while the Wii U has far stronger
and more unique exclusives the Xbox one
is getting every multi-platform game you
can imagine
plus a fairly decent exclusive lineup
this makes the games a tie between the
two winner both in conclusion the Wii U
berry squeezes ahead of the Xbox one
truth be told you can't go wrong with
either of these systems both provide a
fair game and experience to their owners
and thus even as a Nintendo fan I cannot
fault a person for purchasing an Xbox
one that's it for today folks
Facebook Twitter you know the drill see
you next time on the Xbox Hut